---
layout: kz-page
title: Bolivia
meta_description: 
header: no
categories:
    - travel

---

## Reasons to go:

### <a name="salt"></a> 1. Uyuni Salt Flat

Salar de Uyuni is the world's largest salt desert that spans 10,000 square kilometres. I took a 3 day tour from San Pedro de Atacama to Uyuni, which included these stops, numbered from most to least memorable:  
**7.** Laguna Blanca (-22.821855, -67.785858) and Laguna Verde (-22.787863, -67.818458)  
**&#x2022;** Salvador Dali's Desert (-22.59968, -67.683532)  
**9.** Aguas Termales Chalviri (-22.534909, -67.649098), also known as Termas de Polques  
**3.** Geíser Sol de Mañana (-22.433241, -67.761989)  
**4.** Laguna Colorada (-22.170408, -67.804567) with flamingos  
**&#x2022;** Overnight stay in Villa Mar at (-21.752072, -67.482423)  
**6.** Rocas Volcánicas (-21.717403, -67.527478) exciting rock formations with loads of easy climbs to recover from long drives in a car  
**&#x2022;** Laguna Negra (-21.594636, -67.596647), also known as Laguna Catal  
**10.** Viewpoint of Cañon de la Anaconda (-21.467591, -67.621493)  
**8.** Julaca (-20.911945, -67.566671) small town with an abandoned train carriage (and shops if you need anything)  
**&#x2022;** Overnight stay in Hostal de Sal (-20.606673, -67.582225)  
**1.** Salar de Uyuni (10,000 square kilometres)  
**2.** Isla Incahuasi (-20.242572, -67.625136)  
**&#x2022;** Isla de Banderas (-20.330154, -67.047089)  
**5.** Museo Abierto del Ferrocarril (-20.480063, -66.836082), also known as [Cementerio de Trenes](https://www.atlasobscura.com/places/great-train-graveyard)  
**&#x2022;** After the tour, I indulged in vegetarian food at Llama Cafe in Uyuni  

Notes:
* The wet season here is from December to February.
* Depending on your plans, it might make sense to take a one-way 3 day tour ending in [San Pedro de Atacama](/travel/chile/#atacama). Or you might want to rent a 4x4 and explore the area by yourself.
* If taking a tour, note that the tour agencies say they can provide vegetarian and even vegan food, but the further away from the tour office you get the less true it becomes; I was so glad I brought bean cans with me. Also note that drinking water is often not included in the tour price and local shops (if any) might have only Coca-Cola; I stored a 10 liter water bottle at the back of our tour vehicle and that was a great idea.

### 2. Silver mines in Potosi

Visiting the Candelaria mine was one of the best experiences I've ever had. See [this](https://www.emilyluxton.co.uk/bolivia/potosi-mine/) blog post to get an idea of what it's like. I had a good experience with [Koala Tours](http://koalabolivia.com.bo/), their office is just opposite Casa Nacional de Moneda de Potosi. Once you are in Potosi, and to get a bit of context before the mine visit, make sure to visit Casa Nacional de Moneda de Potosi (guided visits only). 

### 3. Wineries in Tarija 

I only had time to visit Bodegas Aranjuez, so I might be biased, but I strongly suspect that it is the best winery in the region. Their tannat reds are great. Still on my to-try list is Moscatel Blue from Vinos Vilte and [singani](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singani) from Casa Real and Kuhlmann. Most winery visits require booking in advance.

## Notes:

* I used Claro prepaid sim card and it worked well.
* To hop between Bolivian cities, I bought bus tickets from [ticketsBolivia](https://www.ticketsbolivia.com/), which I can highly recommend. They also offer international buses to/from Argentina, Chile, Peru and Brazil. When booking an overnight bus, try to get a lie-flat bus (cama, not semicama). It says on the ticket that it must be printed out; I took three different routes (including an international one) and none of them wanted to see a paper ticket.
* Note that bus stations are often located far outside the city center. Many bus stations charge for station usage, so keep some coins on you.
