---
layout: kz-page
title: Estonia
meta_description: 
header: no
categories:
    - travel
---

## Reasons to go:

<a name="tallinn"></a>
### 1. Tallinn

##### 1.1 Tallinn Old Town
* Old architecture - Tallinn Town Hall, Viru Gate, etc.
* The museum inside Town Hall Pharmacy.
* Great views of the city from Patkuli (59.438581, 24.741017) and Kohtuotsa (59.437731, 24.742205) viewing platforms. From Bishop's Garden viewing platform (59.437206, 24.737616) you can see the giant Rubik's Cube of Telliskivi.
* Visit Alexander Nevsky Cathedral, very different from St Mary's Cathedral nearby. I've not visited Saint Nicholas' Orthodox Church, it should be interesting too.
* Restaurant Rataskaevu 16 - great food, including dishes with elk.
* Kohvik Lummus - a great cafe for hangouts.
* Gelato Ladies - great gelato.
* Free [guided tour](https://www.riigikogu.ee/en/visit-us/visit-riigikogu/tours-tour-guides/) of Toompea Castle (the parliament, ID required) is still on my wish list.
* Nümf Bar, The Babylon Bar and Escobaar - these are still on my cocktails-to-try list.

##### 1.2 Telliskivi
* Telliskivi Creative City - a fun place for hangouts and drinks (Purtse Tap Room Telliskivi, Nudist Winery Bar, Junimperium Distillery & Bar, Valmiermuiža Craft Beer Embassy).
* Fotografiska Tallinn - great zero-waste restaurant focussing on local produce.
* Balti Jaama Turg - fresh local produce. And DEPOO for more fun.

##### 1.3 Noblessner
* Põhjala Brewery & Tap Room - set in a beautiful old building.
* [The former submarine shipyard Noblessner](https://www.nordicexperience.com/tag/pohjala-tap-room/) is still on my to-visit list, including Kai Art Center and PROTO avastustehas (Invention Factory).

##### 1.4 Kalamaja
* Colourful houses of [Kalamaja](https://deepbaltic.com/2015/11/23/bohemian-adventures-in-tallinns-fish-house/), for example along Salme street, Vabriku street, etc.
* Tallinna Linnahall - ruins of 5,000-seat concrete amphitheater built in the Soviet era for 1980 Moscow Summer Olympics. After sunset this is a popular hangout spot for local youth.
* Restaurant Moon - Russian cuisine.
* Still on my to-visit list: Lennusadam maritime museum, Patarei prison museum, cafes (Bekker Pagariäri, T35 - The Breakfast Club).

##### 1.5 Sadama
* Rotermanni kvartal - the area around Chinese calendar sculpture (59.438727, 24.756085).
* Museum of Estonian Architecture is high on my to-visit list. KGB Museum is also on that list.

##### 1.6 Maakri
* Keskturg - this is where the locals shop.

##### 1.7 Pirita tee
* Soviet Statue Graveyard - on the territory of Maarjamäe Castle, but no need to buy a ticket if you are visiting only the statue graveyard. If the castle is closed, see the statues from (59.452211, 24.811665).
* Great views of Tallinn from the waterside promenade that runs along Pirita tee.
* Beautiful memorials in Maarjamäe Saksa sõjaväekalmistu (German military cemetery).

##### 1.8 Kadriorg
* Eesti Kunstimuuseum is high on my to-visit list. Kadriorg Art Museum is also on that list.

##### 1.9 Pirita
* Pirita Beach is still on my to-visit list.

##### 1.10 Kopli
* Area around Barbarea restaurant (59.456163, 24.67482) is still on my to-visit list.



### 2. Bear watching

Spend a night bear watching from a NatourEst hide. [Book here](https://natourest.ee/trip/brown-bear-watching/), parking at (59.21925, 26.822016), the hide at (59.229377, 26.824602). Apart from bears, you can look forward to raccoons, [raccoon dogs](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_raccoon_dog), moose, etc. 

### 2. Lahemaa National Park
* Viru Bog Walk - [the 6km walk](https://connect.garmin.com/modern/activity/11790802740) starts in the forest (59.470881, 25.637373), goes over the bog (boardwalk) and passes several lagoons. Don't miss the observation tower (59.46851, 25.654521). I spotted loads of giant colourful dragonflies, but I was told that some years there are instead only biting insects. Insect repellent is a must, but don't use it until you figure out if it is "dragonfly times" or not.
* [Shipwreck](https://et.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raketa_(laev,_1949)) at (59.593526, 25.706993), accessible on foot from (59.591464, 25.70841).
* Beaches - Kolga-Aabla beach (59.572631, 25.528446) is lovely, Võsu rand is still on my to-visit list, and there are many more.

### 3. Eesti Kaevandusmuuseum (Kohtla Mining Museum)

[Book a tour](https://kaevandusmuuseum.ee/en/experiences/underground-experiences/) to go on the underground miners train and see old mining equipment in operation.

### 4. Järva-Jaani Vanatehnika varjupaik (Refuge of old equipment)

Outdoor exhibition includes old cars, public transport, firefighting trucks, farming equipment, etc.

### 5. Narva and surrounding area

* Krenholm Manufacturing Company. Access with [pre-booked tour](https://narvamuuseum.ee/eng/excursions/guide-tours/#excursion-krenholm-the-history-of-the-textile-giant) only.
* Jõepromenaad - promenade along the river, great views of Russian city Ivangorod and the border between the two countries.

Just outside Narva:
* Narva-Jõesuu lighthouse (59.468075, 28.040343) on a beautiful beach on the border with Russia.
* Narva-Jõesuu nudistide rand (59.418608, 27.965258) - nudist beach.
* Sinimäe vaatetorn (59.373533, 27.88141) - observation tower.



## Notes:
* Rimi was my favourite supermarket chain. Small Rimi shops often have local artisanal products (jars of pickled mushrooms, bags of herbal teas, etc.) that are not sold in big Rimi shops. 
* In my experience, all petrol stations in Estonia have great toilets inside the shop (free).
* In winter, wearing reflectors is mandatory from sunset to sunrise.
