---
layout: kz-page
subheadline: 
title: Mexico
meta_description: 
header: no
categories:
    - travel-stories

---

<h4>Reasons to go:</h4>

<h5>1. Mayan Civilization</h5>
<ul>
  <li>Zona Arqueológica de Uxmal is fascinating, loads to explore and much less crowded that other more popular places.</li>
  <li>Teotihuacán - most architecturally significant Mesoamerican pyramids built in the pre-Columbian Americas. In the first half of the 1st century CE Teotihuaca was at least the sixth largest city in the world with about 125,000 people. Teotihuacan is a vast Mexican archaeological complex northeast of Mexico City - bus mexico-san juan teotihuacan  from Terminal Norte to "Los piramides" (metro Autobuses del norte). There - Turn left to the second to last desk. Back before 6pm.</li>
  <li>Zona Arqueológica de Yaxchilán</li>
  <li>Zona Arqueológica Palenque</li>
  <li>Zona Arqueológica de Monte Albán</li>
</ul>


<h5>2. Cities</h5>
<ul>
  <a href="/travel-stories/cdmx/" target="_self">Mexico City</a>
  <li>San Cristóbal de las Casas</li>
  <li>Oaxaca city</li>
  <li>Izamal. Pirámide de Itzamatul and Pirámide Kinich Kakmó are right in the middle of the city. Nice architecture and lively atmosphere.</li>
</ul>



<h5>3. Street art</h5>
<ul>
  <li>In CDMX</li>
  <li>Barrio de Xochimilco in Oaxaca city</li>
  <li>San Miguel de Allende, Guanajuato in Guadaloupe https://www.atlasobscura.com/places/barrio-de-guadalupe-street-art-murals</li>
  <li>La Cevicheria Tabasco in Villahermosa, Tabasco</li>
  <li>In Puebla around Iglesia de Santa Inés.</li>
  <li>Playa del Carmen, Cozumel, everywhere</li>
</ul>



<h5>4. Volcanoes</h5>
<ul>
  <li>Chichonal</li>
  <li>Stratovolcano Nevado de Toluca</li>
  <li>Volcán Iztaccihuatl and Popocatepetl</li>
</ul>
 


<h5>5. Haciendas</h5>
<ul>
  <li>Hacienda Yaxcopoil is a great place to learn about haciendas, the crops they grew and the machinery they used.</li>
  <li>Hacienda San Pedro Ochil is now a restaurant where you can enjoy good food in a spectacular setting.</li>
</ul>



<h5>6. Other stuff</h5>
<ul>
  <li>Iglesia de San Juan Chamula AND El Romerillo Military cemetery</li>
  <li>Las Coloradas salt flats full of red-coloured algae, plankton and brine shrimp that give the water it's bright pink colour. Flamingos frequent this place.</li>
  <li>Cenotes - natural sinkholes resulting from the collapse of limestone bedrock that exposes groundwater. There are many of them.</li>
</ul>


<h4>Local specialities:</h4>
<ul>
  <li>Mezcal</li>
  <li>Tequila. and city</li>
  <li>Nopales - edible Opuntia cacti. You can find them in tacos and other dishes.</li>
</ul>



<h4>Tips:</h4>
<ul>
  <li>Sim cards: Telcel has best coverage accross the country. I bought a "recycled" Telcel sim card from Oxxo. No passport/documents required, insert sim into your phone and it works instantly, top up online as needed.</li>
  <li>ATMs normally charge per withdrawal, regardles of how much you take out. Both Santander and citibanamex work well, allow to withdraw up to MXN 9,000 for about MXN 35 fee.</li>
</ul>






