---
layout: kz-page
title: Ireland
meta_description: 
header: no
categories:
    - travel-stories

---

## Reasons to go:

### Dublin

The best place to stay: 
* Stoneybatter neighbourhood, with Phoenix Park for running and dear watching, and loads of exciting food places on and just off Manor street. Don't miss Sorrento's Takeaway - they make amazing sourdough bread and ice cream from scratch.

Museums:
* Old Library in Trinity College Dublin (housing Book of Kells)
* National Museum of Ireland - Archaeology. Contains loads of surprises (for example, a cat mummy and loads of gold), and is housed in an interesting building.
* National Museum of Ireland - Decorative Arts & History. Learn about local geology and touch many rocks.

Coastal walks:
* Howth - the coastal hike from Howth station is beautiful. Near Baily Lighthouse I've experienced the most windy conditions ever.
* Coastal walk from Greystones to Bray. In Bray, Caffe Letterario GattaNera is a local gem.
* From Sandycove & Glasthule station, explore the area around People's Park and Dún Laoghaire neighbourhood.

Food and drink:
* Powerhouse Bar in [Roe & Co Distillery](https://www.roeandcowhiskey.com/) is where the best cocktails in town are. Book a table or just walk in, no need to consider a tour or any kind of "experience". The view of St. Patrick's Tower is a bonus.
* PHX Bistro is excellent.
* Still on my to-visit list: he Vintage Kitchen (modern Irish cuisine); Peruke & Periwig (cocktail bar); [The Virgin Mary Bar](https://thevirginmarybar.com/) (alcohol free).
* Grocery shopping: I found Fresh supermarket and SuperValu have the stuff I like. Fallon & Byrne Food Hall is still on my to-visit list.




### Ring of Kerry and Dingle Peninsula

* The nature is amazing. 
* Cahergall Stone Fort
* The Valentia Island Tetrapod Footprints
* Kerry Cliffs (Aillte Chiarraí)
* Beehive Hut (Tóchar Maothaithe)
* If you are passing through Dingle, stop for a great ice cream at Murphys Ice Cream.



## Tips

* Connemara Peated Single Malt Whiskey - is the only Irish whiskey that is as peaty as Scottish ones.
