---
layout: kz-page
title: Granola
header: no
categories:
    - kitchen
---

**Ingredients:**

* 90g butter
* 30g sugar (dry)
* 60g wet sweetener (honey, molasses, maple syrup or something else)
* 1 teaspoon cinnamon
* 1/4 teaspoon salt
* 300g oats
* 150g nuts
* 100g seeds (pumpkin, sunflower, etc.)
* 150g dried fruits
* everything else (milled flax or chia seeds, superfood powders, etc.)

**Methods:**

* Preheat the oven to 150C. 
* On the stove top, heat the butter, sugar, wet sweetener, cinnamon and salt until melted and well combined. 
* Take off the heat, add oats and mix until every flake is coated.
* Cover a baking sheet with baking paper. Spread the oats in a uniform layer across the baking sheet. Bake for 20 minutes or until golden but not yet blackening around the edges.
* Meanwhile, put a tray of nuts in the oven and bake for 10 minutes or until smelling lovely and starting to change color.
* Meanwhile, chop the dried fruits.
* Once the nuts are out of the oven, put a tray of seeds in the oven and bake for 5 minutes or until smelling lovely.
* Take the oats off the baking tray with the baking paper and let them cool down while still looking like a flapjack.
* Once everything is cooled down, chop the nuts and break up the oats into small clumps of crunchy goodness. 
* Mix oats with nuts, seeds, dried fruits and everything else.

**Notes:** My favourite combination is almonds, sour cherries and cacao nibs. Apricots fit well into any combination. Avoid dried fruits that contain sweetners (like most cranberries).

**Inspired by:** [Kitchn](https://www.thekitchn.com/granola-recipe-258376)
